# gotoproject

This repository contains the code and data files used to create a Universe with multiple different kilonova light curve models, in which we could discover whether the Gravitational-Wave Optical Transient Observer would not only be able to detect these models at certain distances, but also distinguish between them.We start by replicating a variety of different theoretical and observed kilonova signatures originating from binary neutron star mergers and neutron star-black hole mergers, coming isotropically from the sky at various distances from the Earth. Once these light curves are in place, a random model is chosen at an arbitrary distance and then a chi squared distribution will distinguish out of all the models, which is the most similar. With this data, we present the efficiency curves for eight different models of kilonova light curves. By analysing these efficiency curves, we are able to show how sensitive the Gravitational-Wave Optical Transient Observer telescope is to these transient signals in our simulation. Hence, we will gain an idea of how many plausible signatures could be detected in the future and at what distances, all in the hopes of one day understanding more about the ambiguous physics of neutron stars.
The data files can be found in the folder 'Kilonova Data'. We note that the GW170817 JSON data file can be accessed via https://kilonova.space/kne/GW170817/ and converted with 'read_json.py', however, we have already converted it into a npz array file in Data Reading\Arrays. Also in this file is the code to load all of the kilonova data files and create the models. Finally the models stored in 'lightcurves.npz', must be in the same directory as 'Matching Code' to be loaded in.
